+++
date = "2019-08-29"
title = "About"
+++

Hi! I'm George Vlahavas. I am a computer scientist, currently working as
a researcher in the Department of Informatics, Aristotle University of
Thessaloniki. My current research interests are focused on blockchain
technologies, but I have also been extensively involved with the areas
of Data Science and Statistics, with an application in various subjects
such as Phonetics, Aquaculture, Food Science and Nutrition.

I have taught several classes of Applied Statistics and Biostatistics at
university level. I have even published a book on Applied Statistics.
Lately, I have also been involved with teaching Distributed Systems and
Operating Systems classes in under-graduate level as well as a
Decentralized Technologies class in post-graduate level, the latter
dealing mostly with Blockchain technologies, such as Bitcoin, Ethereum
and Hyperledger Fabric.

I have also been extensively involved in the Linux community for several
years. I am one of the founders and the project lead of
[Salix](https://www.salixos.org/), a GNU/Linux distribution focused on
simplicity, speed and ease of use, with stability being the primary
goal. I'm rather proud of what we have accomplished with Salix; it's a
nice feeling knowing that your software is being used by thousands of
people around the world daily.

I enjoy coding and solving problems. I typically code in one of the
following languages, in no particular order: C, Python, Java, Go,
Javascript, R or (gasp) Bash. My [Github](https://github.com/gapan/) is
filled mostly with stuff I created for Salix.

I currently live in Thessaloniki, Greece. I spend most of my (limited)
free time reading books, coding and tinkering with stuff.

Oh, and I have no social media presence whatsoever. If you'd like to
contact me, you can send me an email at <vlahavas@gmail.com>.
